README.md, before:

# TW2 - Trans-Warp Tunnel Proxy

TW2 (Trans-Warp 2) is a high-performance HTTP proxy tunnel system written in Go that allows secure tunneling of HTTP traffic between two endpoints using Protocol Buffers for efficient communication.

TW2 implements HTTP CONNECT method tunneling, which is the standard method for proxying any TCP-based traffic through HTTP proxies. This makes it compatible with HTTPS, SSH, and any other protocol that needs to be tunneled through an HTTP proxy.

**Security**: TW2 uses SSH tunneling for all connections between client and server, providing strong encryption and SSH key-based authentication. Each tunnel connection uses an independent SSH session to prevent multiplexing vulnerabilities.

## Overview

TW2 consists of two main components that work together to create a secure tunnel:

1. **HTTP Proxy Server** - Accepts HTTP requests and forwards them through the tunnel
2. **Protocol Buffer Server** - Handles the actual tunneling communication between endpoints

The system uses connection pooling, sequence numbering, and message queuing to ensure reliable and efficient data transmission.

## Architecture

```
Client → HTTP Proxy → SSH Tunnel → Remote SSH → ProtoBuf Server → Target Server
```

### Key Features

- **SSH Tunneling**: All tunnel connections use independent SSH sessions for strong encryption and authentication
- **SSH Key Authentication**: Uses SSH public key authentication (no passwords)
- **HTTP CONNECT Method**: Implements standard HTTP CONNECT tunneling for universal protocol support
- **Connection Pooling**: Maintains a pool of persistent SSH tunnel connections for efficient data transfer
- **Sequence Numbering**: Ensures ordered delivery of data packets
- **Message Queuing**: Handles out-of-order messages and connection reliability
- **Concurrent Processing**: Uses goroutines for handling multiple connections simultaneously
- **Configurable Logging**: Multiple log levels for debugging and monitoring
- **Connection Management**: Automatic cleanup and resource management
- **Independent SSH Sessions**: Each pool connection uses its own SSH process (no ControlMaster)

### Protocol Messages

The system uses Protocol Buffers with the following message types:
- `DATA_DOWN`: Downlink data transmission
- `DATA_UP`: Uplink data transmission  
- `OPEN_CONN`: Open new remote connection
- `CLOSE_CONN_S`: Close remote server connection
- `CLOSE_CONN_C`: Close local client connection
- `PING`: Keep-alive messages

## Project Structure

```
├── main/           # Main executable package
│   ├── main.go     # Application entry point
│   ├── go.mod      # Module dependencies
│   └── go.sum      # Dependency checksums
├── twt2/           # Core proxy library
│   ├── twt2.go     # Main proxy implementation
│   ├── twt2_test.go # Unit tests
│   ├── go.mod      # Module dependencies
│   └── go.sum      # Dependency checksums
└── twtproto/       # Protocol Buffer definitions
    ├── twt.proto   # Protocol Buffer schema
    ├── twt.pb.go   # Generated Go code
    ├── go.mod      # Module dependencies
    └── go.sum      # Dependency checksums
```

## Dependencies

- **Go 1.13+** - Programming language
- **Protocol Buffers** - Message serialization
- **github.com/golang/protobuf** - Go protobuf support
- **github.com/silenceper/pool** - Connection pooling
- **github.com/sirupsen/logrus** - Structured logging

## Building

### Prerequisites

1. Install Go 1.13 or later
2. Install Protocol Buffer compiler (protoc) if modifying `.proto` files
3. **SSH Setup (Required)**:
   - SSH server running on the target host
   - SSH public key authentication configured
   - SSH client installed on the client machine
   - Valid SSH private key file accessible to TW2

### Build Instructions

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd twt2

# Build the main executable
cd main
go build -o tw2
```

### Building All Modules

```bash
# Build twt2 library
cd twt2
go build

# Build twtproto library  
cd ../twtproto
go build

# Build main executable
cd ../main
go build -o tw2
```

## SSH Setup

### Server Side Setup

1. **Install SSH server** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   sudo apt-get install openssh-server
   
   # CentOS/RHEL
   sudo yum install openssh-server
   ```

2. **Configure SSH server** (`/etc/ssh/sshd_config`):
   ```
   PubkeyAuthentication yes
   AuthorizedKeysFile .ssh/authorized_keys
   PasswordAuthentication no  # Recommended for security
   ```

3. **Restart SSH service**:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl restart sshd
   ```

### Client Side Setup

1. **Generate SSH key pair** (if you don't have one):
   ```bash
   ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -f ~/.ssh/tw2_key
   ```

2. **Copy public key to server**:
   ```bash
   ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/tw2_key.pub user@remote-server.com
   ```

3. **Test SSH connection**:
   ```bash
   ssh -i ~/.ssh/tw2_key user@remote-server.com
   ```

### Security Notes

- TW2 disables SSH ControlMaster to ensure independent connections
- Each tunnel connection uses its own SSH process for isolation
- SSH StrictHostKeyChecking is disabled for automated connections
- Consider using dedicated SSH keys for TW2 tunnel connections

## Usage

### Command Line Options

```bash
./tw2 [options]

Options:
  -L int        Log level: (1) Error, (2) Warn, (3) Info, (4) Debug, (5) Trace (default 2)
  -l int        HTTP proxy port to listen on (client mode only) (default 3128)
  -h string     Address of the peer host (client mode only) (default "127.0.0.1")
  -p int        Port of the peer on peer host (client mode only) (default 33333)
  -b int        ProtoBuf port to listen on (default 33333)
  -i int        Initial size of connection pool (client mode only) (default 100)
  -c int        Maximum size of connection pool (client mode only) (default 500)
  -ping         Enable ping on pool connections (client mode only) (default false)
  -server       Run in server mode (only ProtoBuf server, no HTTP proxy) (default false)
  -ssh-user string   SSH username for tunnel connections (required in client mode)
  -ssh-key string    Path to SSH private key file (required in client mode)
```

### Basic Usage Examples

#### Server Mode (Remote End)
```bash
# Start the tunnel server (listens on loopback only for SSH)
./tw2 -server -L 2 -b 33333
```

#### Client Mode (Local End)
```bash
# Start the client with HTTP proxy and SSH tunnel
./tw2 -L 2 -h remote-server.com -p 33333 -l 3128 -b 33334 \
     -ssh-user tunneluser -ssh-key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

#### Single Host Testing
```bash
# Terminal 1: Start server
./tw2 -server -b 33333

# Terminal 2: Start client (requires SSH server running locally)
./tw2 -h 127.0.0.1 -p 33333 -l 3128 -b 33334 \
     -ssh-user $USER -ssh-key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

## Monitoring

The application includes built-in monitoring and statistics:

- **HTTP Profiling**: Available at `localhost:6060` for performance analysis
- **Connection Statistics**: Logged every 5 seconds showing pool and connection counts
- **Detailed Logging**: Multiple log levels for troubleshooting

### Log Levels

1. **Error**: Only critical errors
2. **Warn**: Warnings and errors (default)
3. **Info**: General information, warnings, and errors
4. **Debug**: Detailed debugging information
5. **Trace**: Very verbose tracing (including hex dumps)

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
cd twt2
go test -v
```

### Regenerating Protocol Buffers

If you modify `twt.proto`:

```bash
cd twtproto
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative twt.proto
```

### Code Structure

- **App**: Main application structure managing connections and pools
- **Connection**: Represents individual tunneled connections with sequence tracking
- **Handler**: HTTP request handler interface
- **Message Processing**: Protocol buffer message handling and queuing

## Security Considerations

- **SSH Encryption**: All tunnel traffic is encrypted using SSH's strong encryption algorithms
- **SSH Key Authentication**: Only SSH public key authentication is supported (no passwords)
- **Independent SSH Sessions**: Each tunnel connection uses a separate SSH process to prevent session hijacking
- **Loopback Only**: Server side only listens on loopback interface (127.0.0.1)
- **No ControlMaster**: SSH ControlMaster is explicitly disabled to prevent connection sharing vulnerabilities
- **SSH Key Management**: Protect SSH private keys with appropriate file permissions (600)
- **Firewall**: Only SSH port (22) needs to be open on the server side

## Performance Tuning

- Adjust pool sizes (`-i`, `-c`) based on expected concurrent connections
- Enable ping (`-ping`) for long-lived connections in unstable networks
- Use appropriate log levels in production (level 2 or lower)
- Monitor connection statistics for optimal pool sizing

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Pool Exhaustion**: Increase `-c` parameter
2. **High Memory Usage**: Reduce pool sizes or enable ping
3. **Connection Drops**: Enable ping and check network stability
4. **Performance Issues**: Increase initial pool size with `-i`

### Debug Information

Use log level 4 or 5 to see detailed connection and message information:

```bash
./tw2 -L 4  # Debug level
./tw2 -L 5  # Trace level (very verbose)
```

## License

This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0 License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Authors

Martin Palecek <martin.palecek@ketry.net>

Commit message:

Use different HTTP profiling ports for client/server modes
- Client mode: HTTP profiling on localhost:6060
- Server mode: HTTP profiling on localhost:6061
- Prevents port conflicts when running both modes on same machine
- Update README.md to document the different profiling ports
- Profiling server starts after determining client/server mode

This allows for simultaneous profiling of both client and server
instances without port conflicts during development and debugging.

README.md, after:

# TW2 - Trans-Warp Tunnel Proxy

TW2 (Trans-Warp 2) is a high-performance HTTP proxy tunnel system written in Go that allows secure tunneling of HTTP traffic between two endpoints using Protocol Buffers for efficient communication.

TW2 implements HTTP CONNECT method tunneling, which is the standard method for proxying any TCP-based traffic through HTTP proxies. This makes it compatible with HTTPS, SSH, and any other protocol that needs to be tunneled through an HTTP proxy.

**Security**: TW2 uses SSH tunneling for all connections between client and server, providing strong encryption and SSH key-based authentication. Each tunnel connection uses an independent SSH session to prevent multiplexing vulnerabilities.

## Overview

TW2 consists of two main components that work together to create a secure tunnel:

1. **HTTP Proxy Server** - Accepts HTTP requests and forwards them through the tunnel
2. **Protocol Buffer Server** - Handles the actual tunneling communication between endpoints

The system uses connection pooling, sequence numbering, and message queuing to ensure reliable and efficient data transmission.

## Architecture

```
Client → HTTP Proxy → SSH Tunnel → Remote SSH → ProtoBuf Server → Target Server
```

### Key Features

- **SSH Tunneling**: All tunnel connections use independent SSH sessions for strong encryption and authentication
- **SSH Key Authentication**: Uses SSH public key authentication (no passwords)
- **HTTP CONNECT Method**: Implements standard HTTP CONNECT tunneling for universal protocol support
- **Connection Pooling**: Maintains a pool of persistent SSH tunnel connections for efficient data transfer
- **Sequence Numbering**: Ensures ordered delivery of data packets
- **Message Queuing**: Handles out-of-order messages and connection reliability
- **Concurrent Processing**: Uses goroutines for handling multiple connections simultaneously
- **Configurable Logging**: Multiple log levels for debugging and monitoring
- **Connection Management**: Automatic cleanup and resource management
- **Independent SSH Sessions**: Each pool connection uses its own SSH process (no ControlMaster)

### Protocol Messages

The system uses Protocol Buffers with the following message types:
- `DATA_DOWN`: Downlink data transmission
- `DATA_UP`: Uplink data transmission  
- `OPEN_CONN`: Open new remote connection
- `CLOSE_CONN_S`: Close remote server connection
- `CLOSE_CONN_C`: Close local client connection
- `PING`: Keep-alive messages

## Project Structure

```
├── main/           # Main executable package
│   ├── main.go     # Application entry point
│   ├── go.mod      # Module dependencies
│   └── go.sum      # Dependency checksums
├── twt2/           # Core proxy library
│   ├── twt2.go     # Main proxy implementation
│   ├── twt2_test.go # Unit tests
│   ├── go.mod      # Module dependencies
│   └── go.sum      # Dependency checksums
└── twtproto/       # Protocol Buffer definitions
    ├── twt.proto   # Protocol Buffer schema
    ├── twt.pb.go   # Generated Go code
    ├── go.mod      # Module dependencies
    └── go.sum      # Dependency checksums
```

## Dependencies

- **Go 1.13+** - Programming language
- **Protocol Buffers** - Message serialization
- **github.com/golang/protobuf** - Go protobuf support
- **github.com/silenceper/pool** - Connection pooling
- **github.com/sirupsen/logrus** - Structured logging

## Building

### Prerequisites

1. Install Go 1.13 or later
2. Install Protocol Buffer compiler (protoc) if modifying `.proto` files
3. **SSH Setup (Required)**:
   - SSH server running on the target host
   - SSH public key authentication configured
   - SSH client installed on the client machine
   - Valid SSH private key file accessible to TW2

### Build Instructions

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd twt2

# Build the main executable
cd main
go build -o tw2
```

### Building All Modules

```bash
# Build twt2 library
cd twt2
go build

# Build twtproto library  
cd ../twtproto
go build

# Build main executable
cd ../main
go build -o tw2
```

## SSH Setup

### Server Side Setup

1. **Install SSH server** (if not already installed):
   ```bash
   # Ubuntu/Debian
   sudo apt-get install openssh-server
   
   # CentOS/RHEL
   sudo yum install openssh-server
   ```

2. **Configure SSH server** (`/etc/ssh/sshd_config`):
   ```
   PubkeyAuthentication yes
   AuthorizedKeysFile .ssh/authorized_keys
   PasswordAuthentication no  # Recommended for security
   ```

3. **Restart SSH service**:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl restart sshd
   ```

### Client Side Setup

1. **Generate SSH key pair** (if you don't have one):
   ```bash
   ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -f ~/.ssh/tw2_key
   ```

2. **Copy public key to server**:
   ```bash
   ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/tw2_key.pub user@remote-server.com
   ```

3. **Test SSH connection**:
   ```bash
   ssh -i ~/.ssh/tw2_key user@remote-server.com
   ```

### Security Notes

- TW2 disables SSH ControlMaster to ensure independent connections
- Each tunnel connection uses its own SSH process for isolation
- SSH StrictHostKeyChecking is disabled for automated connections
- Consider using dedicated SSH keys for TW2 tunnel connections

## Usage

### Command Line Options

```bash
./tw2 [options]

Options:
  -L int        Log level: (1) Error, (2) Warn, (3) Info, (4) Debug, (5) Trace (default 2)
  -l int        HTTP proxy port to listen on (client mode only) (default 3128)
  -h string     Address of the peer host (client mode only) (default "127.0.0.1")
  -p int        Port of the peer on peer host (client mode only) (default 33333)
  -b int        ProtoBuf port to listen on (default 33333)
  -i int        Initial size of connection pool (client mode only) (default 100)
  -c int        Maximum size of connection pool (client mode only) (default 500)
  -ping         Enable ping on pool connections (client mode only) (default false)
  -server       Run in server mode (only ProtoBuf server, no HTTP proxy) (default false)
  -ssh-user string   SSH username for tunnel connections (required in client mode)
  -ssh-key string    Path to SSH private key file (required in client mode)
```

### Basic Usage Examples

#### Server Mode (Remote End)
```bash
# Start the tunnel server (listens on loopback only for SSH)
./tw2 -server -L 2 -b 33333
```

#### Client Mode (Local End)
```bash
# Start the client with HTTP proxy and SSH tunnel
./tw2 -L 2 -h remote-server.com -p 33333 -l 3128 -b 33334 \
     -ssh-user tunneluser -ssh-key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

#### Single Host Testing
```bash
# Terminal 1: Start server
./tw2 -server -b 33333

# Terminal 2: Start client (requires SSH server running locally)
./tw2 -h 127.0.0.1 -p 33333 -l 3128 -b 33334 \
     -ssh-user $USER -ssh-key ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

## Monitoring

The application includes built-in monitoring and statistics:

- **HTTP Profiling**: Available at `localhost:6060` (client mode) or `localhost:6061` (server mode) for performance analysis
- **Connection Statistics**: Logged every 5 seconds showing pool and connection counts
- **Detailed Logging**: Multiple log levels for troubleshooting

### Log Levels

1. **Error**: Only critical errors
2. **Warn**: Warnings and errors (default)
3. **Info**: General information, warnings, and errors
4. **Debug**: Detailed debugging information
5. **Trace**: Very verbose tracing (including hex dumps)

## Development

### Running Tests

```bash
cd twt2
go test -v
```

### Regenerating Protocol Buffers

If you modify `twt.proto`:

```bash
cd twtproto
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative twt.proto
```

### Code Structure

- **App**: Main application structure managing connections and pools
- **Connection**: Represents individual tunneled connections with sequence tracking
- **Handler**: HTTP request handler interface
- **Message Processing**: Protocol buffer message handling and queuing

## Security Considerations

- **SSH Encryption**: All tunnel traffic is encrypted using SSH's strong encryption algorithms
- **SSH Key Authentication**: Only SSH public key authentication is supported (no passwords)
- **Independent SSH Sessions**: Each tunnel connection uses a separate SSH process to prevent session hijacking
- **Loopback Only**: Server side only listens on loopback interface (127.0.0.1)
- **No ControlMaster**: SSH ControlMaster is explicitly disabled to prevent connection sharing vulnerabilities
- **SSH Key Management**: Protect SSH private keys with appropriate file permissions (600)
- **Firewall**: Only SSH port (22) needs to be open on the server side

## Performance Tuning

- Adjust pool sizes (`-i`, `-c`) based on expected concurrent connections
- Enable ping (`-ping`) for long-lived connections in unstable networks
- Use appropriate log levels in production (level 2 or lower)
- Monitor connection statistics for optimal pool sizing

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection Pool Exhaustion**: Increase `-c` parameter
2. **High Memory Usage**: Reduce pool sizes or enable ping
3. **Connection Drops**: Enable ping and check network stability
4. **Performance Issues**: Increase initial pool size with `-i`

### Debug Information

Use log level 4 or 5 to see detailed connection and message information:

```bash
./tw2 -L 4  # Debug level
./tw2 -L 5  # Trace level (very verbose)
```

## License

This project is licensed under the GPL-3.0 License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Authors

Martin Palecek <martin.palecek@ketry.net>
